README.md, before:

# Terracotta Operator

## get started with local environement

    mvn clean install

Then run the main method from your IDE; it should work

### Upgrade plugin versions

    mvn versions:display-dependency-updates versions:display-plugin-updates

## deploying to Kubernetes


### build and publish it
 
    mvn -f app/pom.xml jib:dockerBuild



    docker push terracotta/terracotta-operator

you can checkout jib options to push to local docker instead :
    https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib

### Required access (if needed)
If you encounter :

```
Message: Forbidden!Configured service account doesn't have access. Service account may have been revoked. namespaces "thisisatest" is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:default:default" cannot get namespaces in the namespace "thisisatest".

```

Then apply this file :

```
 kubectl apply -f sample-yaml-files/fabric8-rbac.yaml
```

### Run and expose the operator

If on Minikube :
```
kubectl run terracotta-operator --image-pull-policy='Always' --image=terracotta/terracotta-operator --port=8080
kubectl expose deployment terracotta-operator --name=terracotta-operator-port --type=NodePort
minikube service terracotta-operator-port
```

If somewhere else : 
```
kubectl run terracotta-operator --image-pull-policy='Always' --image=terracotta/terracotta-operator --port=8080
kubectl expose deployment terracotta-operator --name=operator-port --type=NodePort
```


## Interact with the operator, via Rest

### create a new cluster named `pif` , list it, delete it

When a new cluster is created, we'll persist the tc-configs in a ConfigMap (kubernetes object) named tc-configs
    
    curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
      --request POST \
      --data '{"offheaps":{"offheap1":"100MB","offheap2":"10GB"},"dataroots":{"PLATFORM":"local","dataroot1":"EBS","dataroot2":"local"},"stripes":2,"serversPerStripe":2,"clientReconnectWindow":20}' \
      http://localhost:8080/api/cluster/pif

    curl http://localhost:8080/api/cluster/pif
    
    # or list all known clusters (1 MAX for now)
    curl http://localhost:8080/api/cluster

    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/api/cluster/pif


### upload license, list license, delete license

When a license is uploaded, we'll persist it in a ConfigMap (kubernetes object) named license

    curl -X PUT -F 'data=@/Users/adah/Downloads/TerracottaDB101.xml' http://localhost:8080/api/config/license
    
    curl http://localhost:8080/api/config/license
    
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/api/config/license

### get info about Kubernetes cluster

    curl http://localhost:8080/api/info


## Interact with the operator, via kubectl and CRDs

    kubectl --namespace=thisisatest  apply -f sample-yaml-files/1stripe-1node-cluster.yaml
    
and delete : 

    kubectl --namespace=thisisatest  delete -f sample-yaml-files/1stripe-1node-cluster.yaml


### few notes

super slow to delete a statefulset...

Commit message:

* rename form TC DB to TC OSS * remove license handling * extract namespace variable

README.md, after:

# Terracotta Operator

## get started with local environement

    mvn clean install

Then run the main method from your IDE or run with maven spring-boot:run

### Upgrade plugin versions

    mvn versions:display-dependency-updates versions:display-plugin-updates

## deploying to Kubernetes


### build and publish it
 
    mvn -f app/pom.xml jib:dockerBuild

    docker push terracotta/terracotta-operator

### Required access (if needed)
If you encounter :

```
Message: Forbidden!Configured service account doesn't have access. Service account may have been revoked. namespaces "thisisatest" is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:default:default" cannot get namespaces in the namespace "thisisatest".

```

Then apply this file :

```
 kubectl apply -f sample-yaml-files/fabric8-rbac.yaml
```

### Run and expose the operator

If on Minikube :
```
kubectl run terracotta-operator --image-pull-policy='Always' --image=terracotta/terracotta-operator --port=8080
kubectl expose deployment terracotta-operator --name=terracotta-operator-port --type=NodePort
minikube service terracotta-operator-port
```

If somewhere else : 
```
kubectl run terracotta-operator --image-pull-policy='Always' --image=terracotta/terracotta-operator --port=8080
kubectl expose deployment terracotta-operator --name=operator-port --type=NodePort
```


## Interact with the operator, via Rest

### create a new cluster, list it, delete it

To create a new cluster:
    
    curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
      --request POST \
      --data '{"offheaps":{"offheap1":"100MB","offheap2":"1GB"},"serversPerStripe":2,"clientReconnectWindow":20}' \
      http://localhost:8080/api/cluster

Check the status of the cluster: 

    curl http://localhost:8080/api/cluster
    
Delete the cluster: 

    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/api/cluster


## Interact with the operator, via kubectl and CRDs

    kubectl --namespace=thisisatest  apply -f sample-yaml-files/1server-cluster.yaml
    
and delete : 

    kubectl --namespace=thisisatest  delete -f sample-yaml-files/1server-cluster.yaml


### few notes

super slow to delete a statefulset...
